In this lesson, we're gonna see how to use
for loops to process the data in a text
file.
The first thing were gonna do is open up
the new program.
We call this for file dot P-Y.
And let's start off by refreshing our
memory on how
we process files using a while loop from
the last chapter.
So the first thing we do is open the file.
So there's the statement to open the file.
And then we read a line from the file.
Then we say while, print it, and then read
another line.
So let's save this program.
Go back to our prompt.
And run it real quick.
Notice that when we print the line it also
prints
a line feed because remember when we wrote
the data
to the fall we had to write a line feed
and the print command adds it's own line
feed automatically.
Before I show you how to process data with
a
foreloop, let me show you another little
trick you can use.
In the print command we can suppress the
line feed.
Automatically generated by the print
function, by adding this
argument, End equals Open Close single
quote or empty string.
Now, let's save it.
Let's run that program again.
And
so, you see, it suppressed the line feed
that automatically is added in the print
function.
Okay, so now that we've seen how to do
that, let's
now see how to process this file using a
for loop.
It's quite a bit simpler.
I'mma comment out the previous lines.
So, what we're gonna do is we're gonna
say, for line in open.
Print, line, end, equals.
So remember that the four loop works on a
sequence of data.
And a file is nothing more than a sequence
of data, just like a
list or a [UNKNOWN] or any of the other
data structures that we've looked at.
So let's save the file.
We'll come back and look at it again once
we've run it.
[BLANK_AUDIO]
Clear the screen.
And then run our code.
And so you see, we get the same result,
but in quite a few less lines.
It took one, two, three, four, five lines
to run the first program using a while
loop.
And in a for loop, it only takes two
lines.
And quite a bit less processing power.
Now lets look at another example using the
grades file that we wrote
in the last chapter just to remind you
what the file looks like I
will type it out for you real quick so we
have five grades and we are going to
compute the average of those grades using
a formula.
So we need to say sum=0, count=0, and then
we'll say for grade in, open grades.txt.
Sum=sum + int(grade), remember that we
have to convert
grade from string to integer, so we'll do
that there.
count is equal to count plus 1.
Then, we can say average is equal to sum
divided by count.
And then, print the average.
And remember, we have to convert average
to string in the print function.
We might also print the grades just so
that we can
have a record of the grades as we go
through the loop.
All right so there's our code, let's save
the file.
Go back to our command prompt window,
clear the screen and there's our program.
So to review.
Before loop can be used to process a text
file in a much shorter manner
than using a wild loop, as evidenced by
the examples that I've shown you here.
So we've seen 2 examples where we've shown
that we can eliminate at least 3 or 4
lines of code by using a for loop to
process a text file rather than a while
loop.
In most cases especially again when you're
trying to
process all of the data in the file, the
preferred
way to process the file is using the for
loop
and not using the while loop as we
discussed earlier.
So that wraps up this lesson on processing
files with for loops
and we're ready to move onto the first
exercise for the chapter.